README.rst, before:

PynacL AbStraction Module
=========================

Plasm is a simple `PyNaCl <https://github.com/pyca/pynacl>`__
abstraction module to easily integrate file encryption into python
projects. It makes key generation and file encryption/decryption very
simple. Plasm uses the sealedBox construct. The sealedBox uses key pairs
of public and private keys. This allows encrypt using only a public key.
That way the private key required for decryption can be stored in a safe
place away from the machine that does the encryption. The private key is
also encrypted itself using a password. This password is specified
during the creation of the key pair. During decryption of a file
encrypted with the public key, the private key is first decrypted using
the password specified before it’s creation and then used to decrypt the
file.

If you are willing to dive deeper or want to customize more than what
plasm allows to, feel free to check out `PyNaCl’s
documentation <https://pynacl.readthedocs.io/>`__ and use it directly.

Usage
-----

Generating keys:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from plasm import genKeys

    genKeys.generateKeyPair(privateKeyLocation, publicKeyLocation, password)

Encrypting a file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  removeInputFile is optional and False by default.

.. code:: python

    from plasm import encrypt

    encrypt.encrypt(myFile, publicKeyLocation, removeInputFile=True)

Decrypting a file:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from plasm import decrypt

    decrypt.decryptFile(encryptedFile, privateKeyLocation, password)

Decrypting all files ending with “.crypt” in a directory:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from plasm import decrypt

    decrypt.decryptFilesInDir(dir, privateKeyLocation, password)

Testing
-------

plasm offers a test suite based on pytest. To run all tests, move to the
root directory of plasm and run pytest:

::

    pytest

If you want a coverage report, use this command:

::

    pytest --cov=plasm/ --cov-report term-missing -s tests

Commit message:

remove unused imports, update README

README.rst, after:

PynacL AbStraction Module
=========================

Plasm is a simple `PyNaCl <https://github.com/pyca/pynacl>`__
abstraction module to easily integrate file encryption into python
projects. It makes key generation and file encryption/decryption very
simple. Plasm uses the sealedBox construct. The sealedBox uses key pairs
of public and private keys. This allows encrypt using only a public key.
That way the private key required for decryption can be stored in a safe
place away from the machine that does the encryption. The private key is
also encrypted itself using a password. This password is specified
during the creation of the key pair. During decryption of a file
encrypted with the public key, the private key is first decrypted using
the password specified before it’s creation and then used to decrypt the
file.

If you are willing to dive deeper or want to customize more than what
plasm allows to, feel free to check out `PyNaCl’s
documentation <https://pynacl.readthedocs.io/>`__ and use it directly.

Usage
-----

Generating keys:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from plasm import genKeys

    genKeys.generateKeyPair(privateKeyLocation, publicKeyLocation, password)

Encrypting a file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  removeInputFile is optional and False by default.

.. code:: python

    from plasm import encrypt

    encrypt.encrypt(myFile, publicKeyLocation, removeInputFile=True)

Encrypting all files in a directory:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  outfileExtension is optional and set to “.crypt” by default
-  removeInputFile is optional and False by default.

.. code:: python

    from plasm import encrypt

    encrypt.encryptFilesInDir(directory, publicKeyLocation, outfileExtension=".crypt", removeInputFile=False):

Decrypting a file:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from plasm import decrypt

    decrypt.decryptFile(encryptedFile, privateKeyLocation, password)

Decrypting all files with a certain extension in a directory:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  infileExtension is optional and set to “.crypt” by default

.. code:: python

    from plasm import decrypt

    decrypt.decryptFilesInDir(directory, privateKeyLocation, password, infileExtension=".crypt"):

Testing
-------

plasm offers a test suite based on pytest. To run all tests, move to the
root directory of plasm and run pytest:

::

    pytest

If you want a coverage report, use this command:

::

    pytest --cov=plasm/ --cov-report term-missing -s tests
